## GE, Andy Gallo

Perhaps even better is when the organization bestowing the seal of approval becomes
self- regulating consortium, one which can perhaps respond to the needs of the market in
a manner more quickly than government, and yet, government can play an important role in
initiating, engaging, and supporting the activity.


## HPE

From a governance perspective, it’s optimal to embrace existing structures that many
people are already familiar with and that align organically to the software ecosystems
that are driving modern enterprise operations.

	* SIGs (cites Kubernetes)

There is little to no question that over time OSS will come to comprise the majority, if
not the entirety platform level software within the labs and DOE itself. In that
dimension “Selection” of the core OSS components to be consumed must become a DOE level
governance process, notionally, the “DOE Infrastructure Software Steering Committee" to
avoid duplicative effort at various DOE sites and the introduction of unnecessary
integration complexity which translates to wasted resource investment and poor financial
stewardship.

Further, precisely because DOE desires a decentralized landscape that fosters innovation
and a certain level of competition between labs, the hierarchical nature of the above
governance structure is important. Within the domain specific SIG’s for example new
ideas can be presented and moved through the governance process for ultimate adoption
(or investment).

In any governance model there is hazard in the creation/perpetuation of an overly
bureaucratic disconnected process that ultimately impedes progress. The one word that
best describes the challenges of living in the current world of software is velocity.
DOE’s trickiest challenge in designing a governance model is how to put a structure
together that embraces the rate at which modern OSS software evolves and does so in a
way that can accommodate the realities of the software supply chain fidelity
requirements and ecosystem that are coming into play.


Both DOE and its National Lab-based computing facilities are going to have to look at
organizational structure changes that start to align them to the generalized governance
models above.

In aligning the organizational structures at DOE and the labs to the governance model
presented above, activities including portfolio management and active curation become
readily achievable as does a harmony with the way in which many OSS sources are governed
outside of DOE and the labs.

	* Changes to vendor contracting mechanisms must be factored in as the rate of change
         in the broader software ecosystem is fundamentally incompatible with legacy
         contracting models.

Ultimately, the software governance model needs to facilitate the strategic objectives
of the DOE within the context of the software ecosystem itself and provide a valuable
feedback loop to evolve the strategic plan. The key takeaways for this are:

	1. Don’t fight the ecosystem, work in a common governance model with the outside
          world and adapt internally.
	2. Embrace velocity, the fastest way to fail is to ignore this driver.
	3. Keep broad mandates to the minimally essential a bare minimum so as not to stifle
          innovation.

## ANL

A key obstacle is sustained, long-term funding for the effort. Just as DOE views its HPC
facilities as resources that need to be maintained and updated long term, it needs to
view the critical software developed under DOE funding as a resource that must similarly
be maintained and updated long term.

A successful stewardship effort will have several components that influence the
management and oversight structure, including the main software stewardship activities,
robust application user and software developer programs, and education, workforce
development, and outreach activities for those inside and outside of the effort. The
organizational model must support common services without duplication and include a
leadership council, while allowing appropriate decisions to be made locally and provide
organizational agility.

## Illinois Rocstar

Tasking non-dedicated government employees to host the stewardship effort will likely
not be useful if they have other jobs to do. More likely to succeed is to task a private
organization to provide dedicated resources to organize, publish, maintain, and
“advertise” the software.

The principal criterion of success is that it is easy for the user to find needed
software that works on their system. This will require that curated software remain
current with newer OS versions, or at least flagged with current incompatibilities. This
may demand automated library upgrades; easy to ask (and get answers to) general
questions; monitoring and enforced testing.

Taking an ASCR code and modifying it should have robust regression tests performed to
show that the base functionality remains capable, but the full test suites are often not
available.

## Hal’s slides

* Slide 15: Components of sustainable models
